Hard will come back in this video we're going to be creating the user class in the last video we created
a movie class and we specified the name and genre of a movie and then we saw how we could access the
properties of it.
And what happened when we accessed a property that didn't exist.
What we're going to do in this video is create another class that is going to be our user and this is
the user of the system.
Users of the system are going to have a library of movies and they're going to be able to mark them
as watched or not watched.
So let's right click our project and create a new python file and I'm going to call that user and in
here I'm going to create my class user.
And as we know we are going to put an init method that is going to accept some properties that we're
going to be setting for the specific user.
And that's going to be the name of the user.
And as you know we are going to set the user's name to be the name we passed in as a parameter.
So I'm sure you guys know how to do that already.
Post the video and implement that yourselves.
Remember it is vital for you to be typing code as I explain it as opposed to just listening and not
doing the coding.
Now that that's done as I'm sure you've got it we do self don't.
And then the name of the property that we want to create or access equals name and that since the name
of the user.
Another property I'm going to create in the user is self-taught movies.
And once again that's going to be an empty list as we did with our students.
Now let's go into our app and create a user.
And I'm going to give it my name.
If you use a class without importing it pyjama will allow you to import it directly from here.
So you have to import that and then you can use it.
We're creating a movie here but we've not used it yet in this program.
So what I'm going to do is just comment it out and then I'm going to print the user notice that this
is a user object.
What do you think is going to get printed out.
When I do this.
Well let's have a look.
I'll press play.
And what gets printed out is user Daut user with a capital you object at some address.
This address is the memory address of where the user object is defined not defined but has been created
and allocate some memory.
We don't care about that at all and it's inside the file user and it's a User class type of object.
To be honest none of that is particularly helpful.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to change the way that the user is printed out when I print the
object.
Let's do that with another special Python method which is the underscore underscore our EPR underscore
underscore and that Stansel representation and it allows me to define a string that represents the object
when it gets printed out.
So I'm going to return user and format self-taught.
And what that does is it puts self-taught name in place of the opening and Culbert exclusive formats
.
The string here with a self-taught name which makes a self-taught name appear here and that would be
user Jose.
In this case.
OK.
Now that we've done that let's go back to the app and run it again.
And now we get that there may be a bit more helpful whenever you want to verify your programs are working
.
Something to remember is that once you've created your movie you can at any point do user dot movies
dot append my movie and then you can also print user or dot movies.
And when we do this we get the user representation there and then a list of movie objects and each one
is represented by movie or movie object at some memory address.
So why don't you pause the video go and implement a wrapper method for the movie that we make this slightly
nicer to look at maybe make it represent some useful properties of them of the movie like the name.
Once that's done let's go over it how we would do that here.
Once again we would go inside the movie class.
Remember to indent your code four spaces and then repr method should return movie with a name that format
self-taught.
Notice that this can be anything you want it doesn't have to be the string representation string can
be anything that you want the movie to show as when it's printed.
Now if we run this again we'll see that the movies is The Matrix being one of them.
So now we've created the user.
We've been able to give it's movies and we've created representational formats for them so that when
we print them out it does print something out.
That is a bit more useful than the memory address.
So that's everything for this video.
And I see you in the next one.